What happens when you type google.com in your browser and press Enter?
The screen changes and the google search bar appears, and I type into the box my desired search, very simple, right?

it looks simple but the underline working differ, to know what exactly happens when we press the enter buttons we first have to understand certain protocols, such as the HTTP/s tcp-ip, etc.

TCP/IP Explained
Before we explain the TCP/IP let's touch on some basics. First, your web browser is programmed to understand computer protocols.
But what are websites? It's A collection of web pages that are grouped together and usually connected together in various ways, Which are stored and delivered on a server, known as a Web-server. The web-sever is just a computer that hosts websites on the internet. There is another server Known as the Application server which hosts applications and delivers dynamic content on the user’s demand.

The protocol is a kind of language understood or spoken by computers that allow them to communicate on the internet. Or simply put protocols are conversions that computers adhere to. So every computer on the internet has an IP(internet protocol) address in a form of decimal notation. #.#.#.# where each # represents 0 - 255(8bit) which gives us 32bit, within this kind of figure there can be only approximately 4.3billion computers on the internet at one time which is term as ipv4, currently ipv6 is and improved version of ipv4 which if far more advance. The IP address works together with the TCP(Transmission Control Protocol), which has the function of distinguishing one server from the other. There are quite a lot of services on the internet such as HTTP which is assigned 80, and 443 for HTTP. 443 is the secure version of HTTP. TCP has also the function of distributing big data such as images across the network by dividing them into "packets" bits, then numbering each bit that was divided and sent to the destination. The receiver then sends an acknowledgment to the sender, letting it know the number of bits it received. for example, if it is 4 but received only 2, the sender resends the bit that was not downloaded, thereby preventing it from downloading the whole file again which saves time. In short TCP/IP allows data really to go from point A to point B.

DNS(domain name system)
so typing google.com into your browser by default the browser adds the protocol and the host or subdomain which will be http://www.google.com. The HTTP is the protocol, the www is the subdomain, and google.com is the domain, our IP address.
As Human human being we are used to working better with string but the computer only deals with numbers. So goole.com might be understood by us but not by the computer. For the computer to understand us we need a system that can translate our string's name into numeric, this is where the DNS comes in. DNS make’s internet user-friendly. So DNS is a collection of servers on the internet whose purpose in life is to convert domain names to IP addresses and maybe vice versa. So our www. Google.com might be http://8.8.8.8. There are a lot of servers around the world that host the TLD (top-level domain) such as .com, .org, .eud, etc. If you have a home router plugged into the wall somewhere,
that's not only routing your data in and out of your apartment or home, or dorm room. It's also typically serving as a local therefore faster DNS server. It's locally saving your most frequently accessed websites in their IP addresses to avoid bothering the bigger, more expensive, busier servers all day long.
In most cases a DNS request is sent, to ask for the IP address associated with a domain name. An attempt to reach a domain is actually a DNS client querying the DNS servers to get the IP address, related to that domain which is what is term as DNS request.

So once you enter https://www.google.com.
The Browser sends the domain to the DNS request to your router, it then checks if it knows how to locate the site, if not in its database it sends it to the top-level domain, in this case, the .com server. Which translates it to an internet address. From there the browser initiates the TCP connection with the server if successful the browser then sends the HTTP request to the server. The server processes the request and sends back the response, the browser then displays the response.
